
--- Page 1 ---
Climate 
Transition 
Action Plan
Updated 2024

--- Page 2 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Foreword	
3
Introduction	
5
Our plan	
6
Our operations (Scope 1 & 2)	
14
Our value chain (Scope 3)	
17
Our wider influence on society	
33
Governance and delivery	
37
Appendices	
45
Contents
2

--- Page 3 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Dear shareholders,
Unilever's response to climate change has long been embedded into its way of doing business. 
We have been reporting our operational environmental footprint since the late 1990s and set our 
first value chain emissions reduction goal back in 2010. In 2015, Unilever played a prominent role 
in advocating for the Paris Agreement on climate change – a global treaty designed to catalyse 
action from governments and other actors – and announced new science-based targets for our 
operations and value chain. 
Moving forward, we want to be even clearer about the importance of sustainability to our business 
strategy. In our Q3 2023 update to investors, we identified climate, nature, plastics, and livelihoods 
as the four most important sustainability priorities to support business growth. 
As a company dependent on agricultural and energy-intensive chemical ingredients, we believe 
that transitioning to become a lower-emission business has many benefits. It increases resilience, 
improves efficiency, and future-proofs our value chain against transition risks such as carbon prices, 
while sparking innovation and helping to attract the best talent. In proactively managing our 
transition to net zero, we also ensure we respond to the opportunities and risks highlighted through 
our Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) scenario analysis process. 
The challenges of the climate transition are clear, especially if the world is to reduce greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions at a pace consistent with limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-
industrial levels, avoiding the worst effects of climate change. We are determined to play our 
part and are now driving climate action with greater focus and clarity than ever before. The 
development of this updated Climate Transition Action Plan (CTAP) reflects this shift, as better 
data, and a more granular focus on future GHG reduction opportunities, have enabled us to 
update our targets and embed specific actions to drive their delivery within the financial growth 
plans of our five Business Groups.
Our first CTAP was put forward for an advisory vote at the company's 2021 Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), which passed with the support of over 99% of the votes cast. We have published annual 
CTAP progress reports within our Annual Report and Accounts (ARA) for the last three years and 
will continue to do so. Similarly, shareholders will have the opportunity to voice their support 
for the 2024 update. As was the case in 2021, this advisory vote in no way removes the Board's 
responsibility for this strategy – it simply provides us with the opportunity for a more informed 
dialogue with our shareholders. In the process of updating the CTAP, we consulted our largest 
shareholders on the topic. We were pleased that the key elements of the plan – the new higher 
ambition near-term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets, the continued focus on absolute emissions 
reductions rather than carbon offsetting, and the shift to focus on the specific Scope 3 emissions 
which we believe we can influence – were widely welcomed.
In short, we believe this CTAP is the right one for our business and supports our efforts to sharpen 
our focus and performance. We invite you to indicate your support for it at the AGM.
Yours sincerely, 
Hein Schumacher
Chief Executive Officer
Ian Meakins
Chair and Non-Executive Director
3
Foreword

--- Page 4 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our 
advocacy
Scaling up our Supplier Climate Programme
Reformulating products to use lower-GHG ingredients
Sustaining and scaling our approach to forest-risk commodities
Scaling up regenerative agriculture and lower carbon dairy
Reducing the GHG intensity of our key chemical ingredients
Redesigning our packaging for recycling
Reducing GHG emissions from our operations
Improving our logistics network
Investing in more efficient ice cream cabinets powered by renewable energy
Developing alternative aerosol propellants for the US market
Raise the ambition 
of national climate 
strategies and plans in 
key markets to align with 
a 1.5°C pathway
Ensure carbon is priced 
at levels necessary for 
the delivery of the Paris 
Agreement
Scale up renewable 
energy capacity and the 
rapid phase-out of fossil 
fuels, including fossil fuel 
subsidies
Support forest protection 
and nature restoration
Encourage the evolution 
of the GHG Protocol 
Standards to incentivise 
emissions reduction 
actions in value chains
Our action
areas
Our targets
absolute reduction in Scope 3 
energy and industrial GHG 
emissions* (vs 2021)
42%
absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions (vs 2015)
100%
30.3%
absolute reduction in Scope 3 
forest, land and agriculture 
GHG emissions* (vs 2021)
* Our 2030 targets cover purchased goods and services (associated with ingredients, packaging), upstream transport and distribution, energy and fuel-related activities, 
use of sold products (associated with hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) propellants), end of life treatment of sold products, and downstream leased assets (associated with ice cream retail cabinets). See Appendix 1 for further detail.
Our 2030 plan
4
Foreword

--- Page 5 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Introduction
While we have succeeded in reducing emissions in our operations by 74% in absolute terms 
(vs 2015) and reducing the emissions intensity of our products across our value chain by 21% 
(vs 2010), achieving significant absolute reductions in our Scope 3 emissions has proven 
more challenging. This has prompted us to look again at where and how we believe we can 
seek absolute emissions reductions in our value chain, resulting in this updated CTAP which 
sets out new, near-term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets using the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi) criteria and recommendations for near-term targets,1 and time-bound 
emissions reduction actions that are integrated into our five Business Groups' financial 
growth plans. These targets have been submitted to the SBTi for validation. 
Welcome to Unilever's updated CTAP. Since the first plan was approved by 
shareholders at our AGM in 2021, we have reduced GHG emissions in our operations 
ahead of expectations through long-established programmes in renewable energy 
and energy efficiency. We have also continued to advance the work in our value 
chain towards eliminating deforestation, improving the design of our products, 
and advocating for changes in the policy frameworks that will govern the global 
transition to net zero. 
The development of these plans has been informed by significant improvements in the 
measurement of our GHG emissions, allowing us to build more granular action plans.

We have also recognised the need for more targeted external engagement to drive 
systemic change. Detailed advocacy priorities now target specific barriers to the delivery 
of our CTAP and provide increased clarity on where we must work with governments, 
regulators, or industry to shift the systems of which we are a part.
This updated CTAP will drive progress towards our targets, but we know we have more to 
do. Our commitment to transparent and regular reporting, Board oversight, climate-linked 
executive remuneration, and a focus on emissions reductions rather than offsetting, should 
help us to progress at pace. In addition to the specific mitigating actions set out in this CTAP, 
we recognise innovations will be needed if we are to meet both these near-term targets 
and deliver our Net Zero by 2039 ambition. We believe that by being open and transparent 
about our challenges and dependencies, both for the plan as a whole and for the specific 
action areas identified within the plan, we can help accelerate the changes needed to get 
our business and the world on track for net zero.
This document sets out our plans and targets to transition towards net zero. Annual 
progress reporting and our TCFD statement are published separately, please see 
Appendix 4 for detail.
1 SBTi Criteria and Recommendations for Near-Term Targets , Version 5.1, April 2023
5
Introduction

--- Page 6 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our
plan
6
Our plan

--- Page 7 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our ambition
Preventing climate change by reducing emissions
The ultimate ambition of this updated CTAP is to drive emissions reductions consistent with 
the 1.5°C temperature goal of the Paris Agreement, and to reach net zero emissions across 
our value chain by 2039. The focus of our efforts between now and the end of this decade 
is to deliver absolute GHG reductions, even as we grow our business. While we will seek out 
opportunities to reduce emissions and encourage carbon removals within our value chain 
(e.g. through regenerative agricultural practices), our plan does not include the purchase of 
carbon credits to meet our near-term GHG reduction targets. 
Our CTAP covers the GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 & 2) as well as key GHG 
emissions categories in our wider value chain (Scope 3) including raw materials and 
ingredients, packaging materials, logistics, ice cream cabinets, aerosol propellants and our 
products' end of life.
This plan steps up our actions to drive transformations in our agricultural supply chains. 
We will do this through a focus on regenerative agricultural practices and 'landscape-level' 
interventions in tropical commodity sourcing locations. We also set out the challenges and 
actions in our chemical supply chains. New chemical feedstocks and an energy transition in 
the sector will be critical to our success.
We remain clear that Unilever cannot achieve its targets alone. Around 98% of our value 
chain emissions occur up or downstream of our operations where we seek to influence, 
but cannot control, the pace of change. For this reason, we also include our actions to 
influence wider systemic change, working with peers, regulators, policymakers, consumers, 
customers, and other stakeholders to support an accelerated transition. 
Adapting to climate change and building resilience 
The CTAP sets out our climate mitigation plan – but many of these actions also facilitate 
climate adaptation and improve resilience, both of which are growing in importance as 
part of our overall approach. Ending deforestation and promoting regenerative agriculture 
can help communities adapt to climate change and increase the resilience of our supply 
chains through higher-quality soils, which are better able to cope with fluctuating weather 
patterns and climatic extremes. Some of our actions outside this plan address other 
climate adaptation and resilience risks, such as our efforts to establish water stewardship 
programmes at many of our manufacturing sites. More details about these efforts are 
provided in the Nature section of our Annual Report and Accounts (ARA) and on 
our website. 
across our value chain
7
Our plan

--- Page 8 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Supporting a Just Transition







Since the publication of our CTAP in 2021, we have participated in two industry working 
groups on the themes of Climate Justice and Just Transition. Based on these, and on our 
internal assessment, we have concluded that our priority should be the just transition 
issues that arise in our agricultural value chains. A big part of our agricultural work involves 
engaging and supporting the farmers and smallholders who supply our ingredients, 
and who are vital to conserving the natural environments in which they are grown. 
Deforestation, nature, and biodiversity loss is often closely linked to people and human 
rights impacts. In this regard, we recognise smallholders, Indigenous peoples, and local 
communities as among the most important stewards of the land. 
The global transition to net zero is as much a social transition as an environmental 
one. Unilever recognises the importance of a just and equitable transition, which 
puts people and communities at the centre of a sustainable future.
8
Our plan

--- Page 9 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Under the GHG Protocol, indirect consumer use-phase emissions are an optional part of a 
company's Scope 3 emissions. While the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) encourages 
companies to consider them, they are also clear that they are not required to be included in 
a company's Scope 3 emissions and that their inclusion is above and beyond a company's 
Scope 3 targets. 
Our GHG emissions in scope of our Net Zero by 2039 ambition do not include these optional 
indirect emissions sources, and our targeted reductions are therefore set and reported 
against a baseline of the remaining 56 million tonnes CO2e of GHG emissions in 2021.
Since 2021, these GHG emissions have reduced to 53 million tonnes CO2e as reported in our 
2023 Annual Report and Accounts.
Our GHG baseline
Measuring GHG emissions is a significant challenge and relies on many estimates 
and on information from third parties. In 2023, we implemented improvements in 
our GHG emissions measurement using more complete and accurate data and a new 
measurement system for our largest Scope 3 emissions categories.

Our revised measurement applies the latest guidance on the use of emissions factors 
(IPCC AR6) and the recently published draft GHG Protocol Land Sector guidance. 
We have restated our 2021 and 2022 GHG emissions measurement to reflect these 
changes and the revised 2021 emissions are the baseline of our Net Zero by 
2039 ambition.
Our total revised 2021 GHG emissions are 121 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) and include 65 million tonnes of GHG emissions related to indirect consumer use. 
For Unilever's products, these emissions typically arise from the heating of hot water to use 
alongside our shampoos and shower gels. 
9
Our plan

--- Page 10 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
** Others includes capital goods, fuel and energy-related activities, waste generated in operations, 
business travel, employee commuting, downstream transport and distribution, and franchises.
* In our 2021 baseline, approximately 44% of the GHG emissions from raw materials 
and ingredients were associated with forest, land and agriculture (FLAG)
GHG emissions in scope 
of our Net Zero by 2039 
ambition (% in 2021)
53% 
Purchased goods 
and services
Raw materials 
and ingredients*
4% 
Others**
3% 
Upstream transport 
and distribution
Logistics
2% 
Use of sold products 
Direct consumer use
11% 
Purchased goods 
and services
Packaging materials
6% 
End of life treatment 
of sold products
Product end of life
6% 
Downstream leased assets
Ice cream cabinets
2% 
Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions
Our operations
13% 
Purchased goods and services
Indirect procurement
56Mt
CO2e total
emissions
Our GHG baseline emissions
10
Our plan

--- Page 11 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our near-term GHG reduction targets
Our operations (Scope 1 & 2)
	• Reduce in absolute terms our operational emissions (Scope 1 & 2) by 100% by 2030, 
against a 2015 baseline (SBTi validated as 1.5°C-aligned).
	• Reduce in absolute terms our operational emissions (Scope 1 & 2) by 70% by 2025, 
against a 2015 baseline. 
Our value chain (Scope 3)
	• Reduce absolute Scope 3 energy and industrial GHG emissions from purchased 
goods and services (associated with ingredients, packaging), upstream transport and 
distribution, energy and fuel-related activities, direct emissions from use of sold products 
(associated with HFC propellants), end of life treatment of sold products, and downstream 
leased assets (associated with ice cream retail cabinets) by 42% by 2030, from a 2021 
baseline (submitted to SBTi for validation as 1.5°C-aligned in November 2023).
	• Reduce absolute Scope 3 forest, land and agriculture (FLAG) GHG emissions from 
purchased goods and services (associated with ingredients) by 30.3% by 2030, from a 
2021 baseline2 (submitted to SBTi for validation as 1.5°C-aligned in November 2023).
We have moved from intensity GHG reduction targets to absolute GHG reduction targets.3 
At the same time, we have chosen to increase the pace of these targets to align with the 
goal of limiting global average temperature rise to 1.5°C.
These targets have been split to separate GHG emissions between those resulting from 
forest, land and agriculture (FLAG) and those resulting from energy and industry.
While these two targets are separate, together they represent a 39% absolute reduction in 
total targeted Scope 3 emissions. Detailed notes on emissions excluded from our near-term 
Scope 3 GHG reduction targets are provided in Appendix 1.
We have set near-term GHG reduction targets which cover GHG emissions from our 
operations (Scope 1 & 2) as well as our value chain (Scope 3).
2 This target includes both FLAG emissions and FLAG removals. 
3 We will retire our current value chain emissions intensity targets once our new near-term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets have been 
validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
Scope 3 emissions 
in scope of 
Net Zero by 2039 ambition
Scope 3 emissions 
in scope of near-term 
GHG reduction targets
42%
absolute reduction in Scope 3 energy 
and industrial GHG emissions (vs 2021)
absolute reduction in Scope 3 forest, land 
and agriculture GHG emissions (vs 2021)
30.3%
Out of scope of 
near-term GHG 
reduction targets
15Mt
Energy and 
industrial 
emissions
29Mt
Forest, land 
and agriculture 
emissions
11Mt
11
Our plan

--- Page 12 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our Net Zero by 2039 ambition
Our Net Zero by 2039 ambition remains unchanged.
	• Achieve net zero GHG emissions covering Scope 1,2 & 3 (excluding indirect consumer 
use emissions) by 2039. 

Unilever will seek to balance any unabated emissions within the scope of our Net 
Zero ambition, from 2039, with the same volume of carbon removals. It is clear that 
for the world to keep global warming close to 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement, 
emissions must continue to reduce beyond this date to the minimum level that is 
technically feasible by 2050. 
This will require further systemic change in industry, agriculture and consumption, 
driven by innovation and policy, and Unilever is committed to playing a leading role in 
enabling this long-term transformation.


We have begun to engage in selective industry roundtables on the subject of carbon 
removals. This will be an area of rapid innovation over the coming decade and the most 
recent IPCC assessment report (March 2023) identified that the deployment of carbon 
removals will be necessary to achieve global net zero GHG emissions. 
We believe it is important to consider issues of the quality and permanence of carbon 
removals used to support net zero goals, particularly the non-equivalence of fossil fuel 
emissions and biogenic carbon removals. To the extent that carbon removal solutions 
have a land footprint, we are also sensitive to the potential unintended consequences for 
Indigenous peoples, local communities, and other environmental indicators more broadly. 
These concerns should be reflected in all organisations' future carbon removal strategies.
This is based on the definition of ‘net zero' set by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC). The IPCC defines net zero as a state in which anthropogenic 
GHG emissions to the atmosphere are balanced by anthropogenic GHG removals 
from the atmosphere over a defined period. 
12
Our plan

--- Page 13 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our emissions reduction plan
Ultimately our intention is for our emissions reduction 
plan to cover all the emissions within the scope of our Net 
Zero by 2039 ambition. However, given the importance 
of early action, the CTAP presented here focuses on the 
emissions within the scope of near-term Scope 1, 2 & 
3 GHG reduction targets where we have the greatest 
potential to make an impact and access to better data to 
track our performance. 

In 2023, each of our five Business Groups identified the 
priority action areas towards delivering these targets. 
They cover key phases of the lifecycle of our products, 
including the raw materials we purchase, their production 
and distribution, packaging, direct emissions in the 
consumer-use phase, and finally, their end of life. Some 
action areas are relevant to all Business Groups (such 
as the Supplier Climate Programme, Packaging, and 
Logistics). Others are specific to one or more Business 
Groups (US and Canada Aerosol Propellants for Beauty & 
Wellbeing and Personal Care, Ice cream Cabinets for Ice 
Cream). The action areas have now been integrated into 
each of our Business Groups' financial growth plans.



The most significant challenge for our near-term Scope 
3 GHG reduction targets relates to the emissions in 
our Home Care business, where commercially viable 
pathways to reduce emissions from energy-intensive 
chemical feedstocks by 2030 are not yet clear. This is a 
significant strategic challenge for Unilever and for other 
companies that are dependent on similar supply chains.
These plans identify actions capable of delivering 
our near-term Scope 1 & 2 GHG reduction target and 
approximately two-thirds of our near-term Scope 3 
GHG reduction targets, with one-third left to find in the 
coming years. We believe this innovation and scaling gap 
demonstrates that our targets are suitably ambitious and 
stretching, and also underscores the need to continually 
search for new solutions and ways to scale existing ones 
faster than is currently possible. 

Supplier Climate 
Programme
Reformulating 
products
Forest-risk 
commodities
Regenerative 
agriculture
Packaging
Logistics 
Ice cream 
cabinets
Aerosol 
propellants
Our operations
Chemical
ingredients
13
Our plan

--- Page 14 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our 
operations
14
Our operations

--- Page 15 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our operational emissions are within our direct control. We aim to reduce all 
operational emissions from electricity, heat, and refrigerants by 100% by 2030. We 
have achieved a 74% emissions reduction vs 2015 (achieving our near-term Scope 
1 & 2 GHG reduction target two years early), primarily through our transition to 
renewable electricity, coupled with energy efficiency programmes.
Key actions
Over the next three years, we plan to invest €150m in our manufacturing decarbonisation 
programme focused on three key areas: 
	• Decarbonise our thermal and electrical energy
	- 	Improving thermal efficiency (e.g. by reusing waste heat)
	- Improving electrical efficiency (e.g. by installing more efficient equipment and controls)
	- Introducing more solar thermal technology
	- Electrifying thermal processes 
	- Transitioning to sustainably sourced biofuels, such as biomethane
A key project in this area is moving from natural gas to biomethane at our Oleochemicals 
plant in Indonesia. The biomethane will be produced using palm oil mill effluent from low-
risk deforestation-free mills in our supply chain.
	• Increase our use of renewable power
	- Exploring increased on-site renewable electricity generation
	- Enabling off-site renewable electricity generation through large-scale, physical, and 
virtual power purchase agreements (PPAs)
	• Reduce emissions from refrigeration
	- Continuing our phase-out of high-impact HFC refrigeration systems
	- Training our teams on how to identify, report, and prevent leaks from existing systems
Reduction in Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 
achieved in 2023 vs our 2015 baseline
74%
Our operations (Scope 1 & 2)
15
Our operations

--- Page 16 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Dependencies
	• Availability of cost-effective thermal energy solutions. We are working to accelerate 
the adoption of renewable thermal technologies and advocating for supportive policies 
through coalitions such as the Renewable Thermal Collaborative in the US.
	• Local availability of sustainably sourced biofuels. This helps to support the transition 
away from fossil fuels.
	• Continued validity of market-based mechanisms for renewable energy. This includes the 
validity of unbundled Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) within reporting frameworks 
such as the GHG Protocol for renewable electricity sourcing. As a member of RE100 
(led by Climate Group), we adhere to its technical criteria and advocate for quality and 
additionality in our renewable electricity sourcing to ensure EACs remain a legitimate 
route for sourcing renewable power.
16
Our operations

--- Page 17 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our value 
chain
17
Our value chain

--- Page 18 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our value chain (Scope 3)
Our plan to progress towards our near-term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets has nine priority action areas.
Details of the actions we are taking in each of the nine areas are set out on the following pages.
Scope 3 GHG reduction plan
2021
Baseline
2030 Estimated 
emissions from 
volume growth
Supplier Climate 
Programme
Reformulating 
products
Forest-risk 
commodities
Regenerative 
agriculture
Chemical 
ingredients
Packaging
Logistics 
Ice cream 
cabinets
Aerosol 
propellants
Innovation and 
scaling gap4 
2030 target
100
61
0
120
% of emissions 
in scope of 
near-term 
Scope 3 GHG 
reduction 
targets
4 The innovation and scaling gap represents the amount of GHG emissions for which we need to develop new or scale existing solutions.
18
Our value chain

--- Page 19 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Supplier Climate Programme
Our Supplier Climate Programme, launched in 2021, is focused on accelerating 
the transition of key suppliers to a position of climate leadership. We define this 
as suppliers having set their own science-based GHG reduction targets, publicly 
reporting progress against their targets, and having the capacity and capability to 
provide us with a Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) for the materials we buy.  
By the end of 2024, we aim to have reached 300 of our 
most emissions-intensive suppliers (who account for 
approximately 44% of our Scope 3 GHG emissions related 
to raw materials, ingredients and packaging), building 
their climate capabilities in support of these goals. These 
suppliers include third-party manufacturers who produce 
finished goods for Unilever. 
	• Create innovation partnerships with select suppliers for GHG reduction. We are running 
in-depth workshops with a subset of our suppliers to identify innovation partnerships and 
high-impact emissions reduction opportunities. From 2024, we will begin to equip our 
procurement team with the capability to interpret and meaningfully integrate emissions-
intensity data and emissions reduction into their commercial strategies. 
	• Actively engage with industry-wide initiatives to drive standardisation and scale up 
approaches to climate action and transparency. These initiatives include:
	- Partnership for Carbon Transparency (PACT)
	- Scope 3 Peer Group
	- 1.5°C Supply Chain Leaders Group
	- World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Climate Imperative
	- Environmental Defense Fund's Net Zero Action Accelerator 
Dependencies
	• Industry alignment around common requirements and methodologies for PCF data. 
This ensures suppliers can comply with customer requests for GHG data development 
and sharing and will ultimately enable us to meet the same customer requests. To 
achieve a position where we can fully integrate PCF and emissions reduction data into our 
procurement decisions, we depend on the wider consumer goods industry moving in a 
similar direction.
emissions-intensive 
suppliers onboarded 
by end 2024
300
of targeted 
reductions
14%
Key actions
	• Scale up the Unilever Supplier Climate Programme. We are co-funding supplier access 
to expert support services, sharing best practice knowledge and industry examples to 
develop an emissions baseline, and providing assistance in setting GHG reduction targets 
and guidance in developing GHG reduction plans.
19
Our value chain
Supplier Climate Programme

--- Page 20 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Reformulating products 
Reformulating our products is one of our biggest opportunities to reduce emissions. 
Importantly, we are taking action without compromising on product performance or 
consumer experience. 
Key actions
	• Reformulate our Home Care products to use innovative lower-GHG ingredients. 
Following the successful launch in 2023 of a new generation of fast-dissolving, cold-wash 
ready, concentrated laundry capsules in the UK and France, we will roll out this innovation 
further in the next couple of years.
	• Use plant-based and lower-GHG food ingredients in Nutrition. We have successfully 
launched low-oil mayonnaise, reduced monosodium glutamate (MSG) bouillon, vegan 
mayonnaise and other plant-based products. In the next few years, we will continue to 
scale these products globally.
	• Increase plant-based ice cream options and alternatives. We are continuing to make 
indulgent, plant-based variants an integral part of new product ranges in priority markets, 
such as Ben & Jerry's in Europe. In addition, we continue to explore the introduction of 
plant-based protein and fat alternatives where appropriate elsewhere in our portfolio.
	• Reduce palm oil usage in soap bars. Considerable research is underway to lower 
the emissions intensity of soap bars by reducing the use of oils, while simultaneously 
aiming to maintain and improve the consumer experience. Specifically, we are working 
to replace high GHG-impact palm oil-derived materials with novel, low GHG-impact 
structuring technologies. 
Dependencies
	• Increased consumer acceptance of plant-based products and 
technological developments. In the coming years, research into 
consumer perceptions and R&D investment to build confidence in the taste 
and texture comparability of plant-based products will be a priority.
	• Changes to national Standards of Identity (SOI). We are required to align our product 
content and production methods with SOI in different markets – for example, the 
minimum quantity of vegetable oil in our mayonnaise or levels of dairy in our ice creams. 
We continue to engage with governments to ensure our ability to market our products 
successfully in geographies where these SOI challenges apply.
of targeted 
reductions
13%
20
Our value chain
Reformulating products

--- Page 21 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
of targeted 
reductions
10%
Forest-risk commodities 
The GHG emissions from the production of our key forest-risk commodities (i.e. palm oil, paper 
and board, tea, soy and cocoa) arise from land use change (e.g. deforestation), agricultural 
practices and downstream processing. In 2020, we set a goal to achieve a deforestation-free 
supply chain in palm oil, paper and board, tea, soy and cocoa. By the end of 2023, we had put 
in place the infrastructure, monitoring and verification systems to manage a deforestation-free 
supply chain. For example, we have strengthened the traceability and transparency of our palm 
oil supply chain by using satellite imagery and geolocation data to measure deforestation.
Additionally, 97.5% of our palm oil, paper and board, tea, soy and cocoa order volumes were 
deforestation-free by the end of 2023, based on Unilever's deforestation-free requirements.
Key actions
	• Invest in our value chain to meet current and future demand for deforestation-free 
commodities. We will continue to work with suppliers to build the right infrastructure and 
systems to meet our deforestation-free requirements. Initially, this means fewer suppliers in 
deeper partnerships. Additionally, we are building and investing in more infrastructure (e.g. 
our cumulative investment of US$350m in our Unilever Oleochemicals facility in Indonesia), 
and therefore, increasing sourcing at the primary production and farm level. This will help us 
support more suppliers to onboard and transition to deforestation-free and net zero. We are 
also working to improve the management of palm that continues to be grown on peatland, 
while also seeking to source primarily from areas not exposed to peatland. All of these efforts 
will be supported by our investments in technology to enhance traceability and improve 
monitoring capabilities to measure GHG emissions along the supply chain and at farm level.
	• Enrol suppliers and smallholder farmers in our programmes. In doing so, we can help 
them improve practices and ensure they do not contribute to land use change, while also 
helping them improve their agricultural productivity and income. These efforts will be 
critical in reducing their GHG emissions and building an inclusive climate transition.
	• Drive improvements in the processing of forest-risk commodities. We do this by 
encouraging investment in managing and capturing these emissions with our strategic 
partners. A key focus will be on reducing methane emissions from palm oil mill 
effluent (POME).

Dependencies
	• Availability of deforestation-free and lower-emission commodities. As other companies 
look to improve their practices, including in response to the introduction of regulations 
such as the EU Deforestation Regulation, the availability of deforestation-free 
commodities may continue to become more constrained. Similar constraints may affect 
the sourcing of palm oil in line with best practice standards, e.g. not grown on peatland. 
We will engage with a range of local stakeholders to ensure ongoing access.
	• Adoption of consistent standards for forest-risk commodities and level playing fields 
globally. While regulations may introduce a level playing field in certain markets, others 
may continue to operate on different standards. A lack of consensus around forest-risk 
commodity management would continue to disrupt efforts to manage deforestation-free 
supply chains. We will continue to advocate for level playing fields and consensus around 
best practice.
21
Our value chain
Forest-risk commodities

--- Page 22 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Engaging communities in landscape-level 
approaches to climate and nature
Through our no-deforestation programmes, we are investing in reducing land-use 
impacts within our value chain. We are also looking to invest in the landscapes and 
jurisdictions around our sourcing locations. This means engaging with smallholder 
farmers, civil society, governments, businesses, and communities to support the design 
and implementation of strategic programmes that can positively transform five different 
palm oil production landscapes. 

Our current landscapes already cover a total area of 9m hectares across Latin America, 
South East Asia, and Africa. Within these regions, we are helping to protect and restore 
over 200,000 hectares of forests and have a pipeline of projects that would extend to 
cover a further 300,000 hectares. We also seek cooperation that will allow us to scale our 
projects faster and further. As partners of the Rimba Collective, we are collaborating on 
projects such as the Dove Nature Regeneration Project that will help protect and restore 
an area of forest eight times the size of Manhattan, while supporting local communities 
to thrive. 
of targeted 
reductions
10%
22
Our value chain
Forest-risk commodities

--- Page 23 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Regenerative agriculture 
Our focus on regenerative agricultural practices aims to deliver positive impacts on soil 
health, farm biodiversity, and the resilience of agricultural systems, all while reducing 
carbon emissions and revitalizing land. Currently, we have 46 projects in collaboration 
with our suppliers, covering 270,000 hectares of land transitioning to regenerative systems. 
These efforts are instrumental in producing key ingredients for our Nutrition and Ice Cream 
products, including rice, soybeans, wheat, rapeseed, corn, tea, and dairy products.

In 2021, we published our Regenerative Agriculture Principles and have since been 
collaborating with our farmers and suppliers to implement practices tailored to local 
contexts, including:
Our primary objective, especially in the initial years, is to reduce emissions at the farmer 
level. However, we also recognize the potential to sequester carbon dioxide from the 
atmosphere and store it in the ground as soil organic carbon, particularly within our soy and 
rapeseed oil value chains.
of targeted 
reductions
4%
Key actions
	• Scale up adoption of regenerative agriculture. In our Nutrition business group, we aim to 
cover 650,000 hectares by 2027. This represents approximately 50% of our land footprint in 
Nutrition. Priority-crop geography combinations include soy in Brazil and the US, and 
rapeseed in the UK and EU, particularly in Germany and Poland. We estimate the currently 
identified regenerative agriculture projects will cumulatively cost c. €140m in the period to 
2030. In addition to lowering emissions, this will promote the resilience of our supply chain, 
reducing sources of volatility and safeguarding our access to raw materials.
	• Expand our Lower Carbon Dairy Programme. By 2030, we aim for a significant portion of 
our global dairy volume to be sourced from farms implementing regenerative agricultural 
practices, predominantly across the US, Europe, India, and Turkey. In 2024, we will evaluate 
the results of a dairy pilot project conducted by Ben & Jerry's in the US and the Netherlands. 
This will provide us with valuable insights and help us recruit additional farmers to 
broaden the programme's scope. From 2025, we aim to expand the programme's 
implementation by introducing similar initiatives across two additional markets.
	• Work together across shared supply chains. We are working in transparent, pre-
competitive partnerships with other businesses with whom we share suppliers. This 
cooperation will amplify the impact of our programmes, leading to more effective 
transitions and greater overall benefits across environmental, social, and economic 
dimensions. For instance, our alliance with PepsiCo in Iowa has already enabled us to pool 
resources and scale projects efficiently, even when our procurement constitutes only a 
fraction of a farmer's total agricultural yield.
the use of cover crops
mitigating enteric emissions 
and emissions from livestock 
feed production
crop rotation
effective manure management 
reduced tillage
optimizing milk processing
the substitution of synthetic 
fertilisers with natural alternatives
23
Our value chain
Regenerative agriculture

--- Page 24 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Dependencies
	• Farmer capacity and capability to implement regenerative agricultural practices. 
To address this, we are investing in programme management and training to expand the 
number of skilled professionals for comprehensive solutions and farmer engagement. We 
are also establishing a network of regional partners with technical agronomical expertise 
across Latin America, Europe, and the US, bolstering the capabilities of farmers within 
these regions.
	• Shared understanding of regenerative agriculture principles and practices. 
There is a pressing need for an industry-wide, outcome-oriented framework 
encompassing a shared understanding of regenerative agriculture principles and 
practices and a practical approach to data handling, measurement, reporting, and 
verification. We will continue to work collaboratively with others to achieve this.
	• Supportive regulatory environment. An accelerated 
adoption of regenerative agricultural practices requires 
a supportive regulatory environment that mitigates 
risks for farmers. This includes financial incentives for 
farmers to transition to and maintain the practices, such 
as subsidies included in national policies and incentive 
schemes. We are working collaboratively on this in the US, 
EU, and India and expanding to other geographies with 
project implementation.
of targeted 
reductions
4%
Spotlight on the GHG Protocol
Accurately quantifying the emissions reduction or carbon removal benefits of the 
agricultural practices we support in our upstream value chain is critical to meeting our 
targets. We adhere to the GHG Protocol Standards but believe they will need to evolve 
if companies are to be encouraged to contribute to collective efforts to protect and 
regenerate nature within the agricultural landscapes from which they source. This could 
mean permitting companies to account for a share of GHG emissions reductions or 
removals within the supply sheds from which they source, even in the absence of physical 
traceability. In our plan, we assume that these changes will come about in the next seven 
years and therefore, that Unilever will be permitted to count the benefits of our work in 
forest-risk commodities, regenerative agriculture, and lower carbon dairy towards the 
delivery of our near-term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets. We plan to actively engage with 
the GHG Protocol to shape the evolution of these standards. Without such an evolution, 
many companies, including Unilever, will struggle to demonstrate how they are meeting 
their ambitious GHG reduction targets. 
24
Our value chain
Regenerative agriculture

--- Page 25 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Chemical ingredients 
Two key chemical ingredients contribute a significant proportion of our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions: linear alkylbenzene sulphonate (LAS) and soda ash.
Linear alkylbenzene sulphonate (LAS)
Linear alkylbenzene sulphonate (LAS) is an organic chemical used as a surfactant (or 
cleaning agent) in Home Care products such as laundry detergents. LAS has historically 
been derived from petrochemical feedstocks. The emissions of petrochemical-derived LAS 
can be divided into two types: first, the GHG emissions when it is produced (approximately 
34%) and second, the GHG emissions through biodegradation when the product is used and 
passes into wastewater (approximately 64%). 
Soda ash
Soda ash is the second-biggest contributor to the GHG ingredient emissions of our Home 
Care business. It is an inorganic chemical used as a key ingredient in laundry powders, the 
most popular laundry detergent format in key markets such as India, Brazil, and China. 
Soda ash is either mined or produced synthetically. Mined soda ash generally has a lower 
GHG intensity but is unavailable in some of our key markets. Where it is not available, we 
rely on synthetic soda ash production. Synthetic soda ash is energy-intensive and, due to 
the markets where it is produced, this energy is often produced by burning coal. Ammonia, 
a key ingredient used in the manufacture of synthetic soda ash, also has a high GHG 
emissions intensity. 
of targeted 
reductions
6%
25
Our value chain
Chemical ingredients

--- Page 26 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Key actions
	• Reduce the GHG intensity of LAS production. To reduce emissions from production, we 
encourage our suppliers to use renewable energy. Additionally, along with SCI (Society 
of Chemical Industry), we are spearheading the £5.4m Flue2Chem project in the UK, 
collaborating with 13 other partners to take waste gas from foundation industries such 
as metal, glass, paper, or chemicals and generate an alternative source of carbon for 
surfactant production. 
	• Reduce the GHG intensity of soda ash production. Building on the work done with our 
soda ash suppliers for the past three years, we will scale up the use of soda ash with 
lower-than-average GHG emissions, predominantly using energy sources such as natural 
gas and biomass. We also intend to pilot an innovative technological solution to produce 
synthetic soda ash from green ammonia.
Dependencies
	• Industry cooperation and advocacy. Low-carbon, synthetic soda ash production requires 
a cooperation between end-users, soda ash manufacturers and the fertiliser industry – 
which uses ammonia in high quantities – to change the energy systems through which 
synthetic soda ash is produced and to develop a cost-effective supply of 'green' ammonia. 
	• Supplier climate action. We depend on ongoing innovation partnerships with suppliers 
to develop and procure low-carbon soda ash. To encourage these partnerships, we are 
evolving our procurement policy to consider the relative GHG emissions intensity of our 
suppliers' products and to support suppliers in identifying, measuring, and reducing their 
GHG emissions through our Supplier Climate Programme.
	• A level playing field for the production of renewable linear alkylbenzene sulfonate 
(LAS). LAS competes with sustainable aviation fuel for access to renewable feedstocks. 
Currently, there are significant public subsidies and regulatory support for sustainable 
aviation fuel, which do not exist for renewable LAS. Without equivalent support for 
renewable LAS, commercial barriers to the adoption of renewable LAS at scale will remain.
Progress at scale is only possible if our goals are shared with others in the surfactant value 
chain, so we will collaborate and advocate for policies that support our plan. This includes 
advocating for incentives that make renewable LAS an attractive business opportunity 
for both LAS producers and end users such as Unilever. We will continue to partner with 
key surfactant and inorganic chemical suppliers to drive ingredient and manufacturing 
reductions that reduce emissions. In addition we are engaging 74 Home Care suppliers in 
the Supplier Climate Programme.
of targeted 
reductions
6%
26
Our value chain
Chemical ingredients

--- Page 27 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Packaging 
Emissions from packaging are a significant contribution to our total Scope 3 GHG emissions 
and predominantly arise during two lifecycle stages: at feedstock creation, for example, 
where plastics traditionally use fossil fuels, and at end of life, particularly if disposed of 
through incineration or landfill. Our progress within this action area is demonstrated 
through our continued use of post-consumer recycled plastic (PCR), which increased from 
18% in 2021 to 22% in 2023 thereby further reducing our dependence on virgin fossil-fuel-
derived plastics.
Key actions
	• Reduce our overall packaging material use. We are designing new product formats, 
like laundry sheets and shampoo bars, which permit innovative packaging that requires 
fewer materials while also using advanced digital modelling techniques to identify new 
opportunities to reduce the weight of our products. Scaling this up can be challenging 
given sustained consumer preference for convenience, value, and performance.
	• Transition towards increased use of recycled and renewable feedstocks. We aim to 
transition from virgin, fossil-fuel-derived materials to alternatives made of recycled 
and renewable feedstocks to reduce the emissions of the packaging material we still 
require. With mechanically recycled plastic estimated to have half the GHG footprint 
of virgin fossil-fuel-derived plastic, and chemically recycled flexible plastic around 40% 
less,5 increasing the use of PCR remains a priority. Our dedicated team, led from our R&D 
Packaging Centre, continues working on new technologies and approval systems to 
improve the quality and availability of PCR in cooperation with suppliers. 
Further opportunities to increase the use of PCR are also created by extending its use 
into new formats, such as toothpaste tubes and flexible packaging, with first launches 
already in the market. We also aim to increase our use of recycled aluminium and paper 
while developing new bio-plastic materials from renewable feedstocks and paper-based 
packaging from non-forestry-derived fibres in cooperation with our suppliers.
	• Design our packaging for recycling. We will continue to design our packaging for 
recycling, to support the development of necessary waste management infrastructure, 
maximise the value of collected waste and avoid emissions from end of life incineration. 
72% of our plastic packaging portfolio is already designed for recycling, and we continue 
to develop new packaging innovations to increase this figure.
	• Advocate for better collection, recycling, and reuse infrastructure. To stimulate the 
market for PCR content and improve the availability of high-quality recycled materials, 
we support the development of necessary waste management infrastructure to maximise 
the value of collected waste and avoid emissions from end-of-life incineration. Next to 
this, we aim to scale up reusable packaging models. Based on our learnings from around 
50 pilots, we are now working with industry peers and actively participating in initiatives 
led by the World Economic Forum and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation to establish if 
and how we can bring refill-reuse solutions to consumers in an effective, convenient, and 
affordable way.
5 Consumer Goods Companies Announce Position on Chemical Recycling Technologies and Publish Life Cycle Assessment - The Consumer Goods Forum
of targeted 
reductions
3%
27
Our value chain
Packaging

--- Page 28 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Dependencies
	• Implementation of regulated Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) schemes. We will 
continue advocating for well-designed EPR schemes, where companies such as Unilever 
pay for and manage the collection and processing of packaging. EPR systems provide 
dedicated financing for waste management, driving up recycling rates and the supply 
of PCR. 
	• Agreement of a global plastics treaty. As a member and co-chair of the Business 
Coalition for a Global Plastics Treaty, Unilever is advocating for a high-ambition 
outcome of a legally binding treaty that sets global, harmonised rules. Global action will 
help create the systems-level change we need to reduce the production and use of 
plastic through a circular economy approach, and to contribute to a reduction in global 
GHG emissions. 
	• Public policy that creates the right enabling environment for new packaging models 
to succeed. This includes setting standards, metrics, and incentives for new refill-reuse 
business models. 
28
Our value chain
Packaging
of targeted 
reductions
3%

--- Page 29 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Logistics 
We use logistics and distribution networks across the world to transport our raw materials 
and products, resulting in GHG emissions from fossil fuel use. 
Key actions
	• Improve transport network efficiency. Our activities in the last three years have focused 
on improving utilisation rates and reducing distances travelled. We expect most of our 
reductions up to 2026 will rely on further operational improvements. Specifically, we 
anticipate a total of 16% reduction in our upstream transport and distribution by 2026 
as a result of network redesign, increased utilisation of intermodal transport, and various 
operational efficiencies such as load-fill optimisation and reduced fuel consumption. 
	• Scale up electric and alternative fuel vehicles. Beyond 2026, we expect to increase 
our reductions coming from electric and alternative fuel vehicles. Over the next three 
years, we plan to learn from our electric vehicle pilots to scale up the adoption of clean 
technologies in key markets such as the US, Europe, China, and Brazil.

Dependencies
	• Accelerated decarbonisation of the transport sector. As we depend on third-party 
transport equipment and wider transport infrastructure, the current pace of zero-emission 
technology limits our ability to reduce emissions further. 
	• Improved availability of alternative fuels, electric vehicles (especially heavy-duty 
vehicles), and recharging infrastructure. At present, many of these remain limited 
in many locations around the world. In addition, deep emissions reductions are only 
possible when electricity generation supporting electrified transport modes is renewable. 
We are reliant on governments in the markets we operate supporting the acceleration 
and scale of clean technology adoption. 
To address these dependencies, we continue to engage with several coalitions, councils, 
and associations to accelerate the pace of change. These include the Smart Freight Centre 
(an international industry coalition focused on reducing the emission impacts of freight 
transportation), Cargo Owners for Zero Emission Vessels (a similar coalition aiming to 
identify and implement emissions reduction solutions within shipping), and the Global 
Maritime Forum. 
of targeted 
reductions
2%
29
Our value chain
Logistics

--- Page 30 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Ice cream cabinets
We have a global cabinet fleet of close to 3 million point-of-sale ice cream freezers, all of 
which use electricity with associated GHG emissions. 
Key actions
	• Increase cabinet energy efficiency. We will continue renewing our cabinet fleet at the end 
of life with more energy-efficient models, such as horizontal cabinets and those with more 
efficient freezer components and technologies. We plan to prioritise significant markets 
and those where the power grid has higher emissions intensity factors. By 2030, we aim for 
all new cabinets to use more efficient components (such as compressors or fan motors) 
and other design changes which can reduce cabinet energy usage by 15-20%. 
	• 'Warm up' the cold chain. This involves raising the temperature settings of the cabinets 
from the standard setting of -18°C to a higher setting of -12°C, requiring less energy. 
The programme involves reformulation of some of our ice cream portfolio to ensure the 
same quality and consumer experience at this warmer temperature. Based on trials in 
Germany, we estimate that the temperature change has the potential to deliver 20-30% 
energy reduction per freezer. Further trials will be conducted in Indonesia and other 
early adopter markets over the next three years. The Indonesia pilot will include both 
reformulated and naturally resilient ice cream products. In Q4 2023, we announced we 
will grant free, non-exclusive licences for 12 reformulation patents to support industry 
movement towards warmer cabinets and emissions reduction. Access to these patents is 
intended to help the industry make the same transition. 
	• Transition to renewable energy. For the energy use that cannot be reduced through 
efficiency measures or our cabinet warming programme, we will support a transition to 
renewable sources. We prefer this to happen through PPAs or green electricity tariffs that 
promote the development of local renewable power markets. We will also explore direct 
solutions such as solar panel installation at the retailer level. However, where these are 
not possible or practicable, we will explore options such as the purchase of local energy 
attribute certificates (EACs) to match the energy usage of our cabinets.
of targeted 
reductions
19%
30
Our value chain
Ice cream cabinets

--- Page 31 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Dependencies
	• Ongoing transition to renewable electricity. We assume that national electricity grids 
will continue to transform towards renewables in line with current projections, and we will 
continue to support this change through advocacy and engagement through campaigns 
such as RE100.
	• Market access to PPAs and ongoing acceptability of EACs. We assume access to power 
purchase agreements in markets, as well as the acceptability of EACs for renewable 
electricity produced within market boundaries – including their use for reporting Scope 3 
emissions from leased assets.
	• Change in freezer temperature regulations. Where we are looking to increase the 
temperature of our cabinets, we will need to work with regulators to ensure alignment in 
specific markets where regulations do not currently allow higher temperatures. Our plans 
also require us to gain industry support and ensure compliance with competition laws. 
We have already started engagement at the EU level with valuable feedback from the 
ice cream and wider frozen food industry. We will look to extend our engagement with 
industry peers worldwide. 
of targeted 
reductions
19%
Ice cream cabinets
31
Our value chain

--- Page 32 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Aerosol propellants in 
the US & Canada
Propellants are ingredients used within products such as hair sprays, antiperspirant sprays, deodorants, and body sprays. 
They are a growing format preferred by consumers due to characteristics such as their convenience, hygiene, and ease of use. 
Outside of the US & Canada, Unilever uses natural hydrocarbon gases for these spray formats which are not classified as 
GHG emissions. However, in part due to restrictions in the US and Canada regarding volatile organic compound (VOC) 
regulations, our spray formulas in these markets use hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) propellants. These propellants typically 
have a global warming potential (GWP) of around 164, meaning they are 164 times more potent than carbon dioxide in 
contributing to global warming. 
Key actions
	• Develop alternative propellants for the US market. The regulations in the US have now changed and we can use less 
GHG-intensive propellants. We are currently investigating alternative propellant solutions for the US.

	
		
	
Dependencies

	
•   Consumer acceptance of aerosol propellant innovations in the US and Canada markets.
	 •   Removal of potential regulatory roadblocks in Canada. 
	 To address these dependencies, we continue to develop and test alternative propellant systems that 
reduce emissions without compromising the consumer experience, and to work with Environment 
and Climate Change Canada to address potential regulatory roadblocks in that market.
of targeted 
reductions
7%
Retail emissions from  
ice cream freezers
32
Our value chain
Aerosol propellants

--- Page 33 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our wider 
influence 
on society
33
Our wider influence on society

--- Page 34 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our wider influence on society
Our advocacy has formed a key part of our climate action to date and has been 
recognised as industry-leading by InfluenceMap.6 We have developed a targeted 
advocacy agenda with objectives up to 2030, many of which have been outlined above 
as part of our plan to target specific emissions reductions (i.e. regenerative agriculture, 
cold chain standards). We will also continue to advocate for policies that support 
economy-wide transformation, including:
	• Encouraging governments to raise national climate ambition in our markets to align 
with a 1.5°C pathway in line with the more ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement.
	• Scaling up renewable energy capacity and phase-out of fossil fuels. 
	• Providing financial and policy support for forest protection and nature restoration.
We will pursue broader support for these objectives at an international level via forums 
such as the World Economic Forum's Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders, We Mean 
Business Coalition, WBCSD, the Corporate Leaders Groups, and the Carbon Pricing 
Leadership Coalition. 
6 InfluenceMap Corporate Climate Leaders Report, 2023.
Image: Climate Group
34
Our wider influence on society

--- Page 35 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Policy advocacy in support of priority action areas
We will advocate for policies that drive the global transition 
to net zero and accelerate the impact of Unilever's 
mitigating actions. Importantly, by supporting policies that 
create a level playing field, we aim to de-risk the transition, 
helping us achieve our ambitions without putting the 
business at a competitive disadvantage.
Our cross-cutting advocacy asks underpin 
more specific advocacy in support of 
individual action areas in our plan:
	








	
Reformulating products: Ensure Standards of Identity rules 
are not a barrier to portfolio development.

Forest-risk commodities: Advocate for policies that facilitate 
the maintenance of a deforestation-free supply chain 
even when sourcing increasing volumes of ingredients in a 
competitive market.

Regenerative agriculture: Lobby for a regulatory landscape 
that supports farmers to transition to and maintain a 
regenerative agriculture approach.

Chemical ingredients: Create a level playing field 
that supports national policies that rapidly accelerate the 
scale-up of non-fossil chemical feedstocks and addresses 
energy emissions from ingredient production. 

Key cross-cutting advocacy asks include:
Packaging: Advocate for the development of Extended 
Producer Responsibility (EPR) legislation, implementation 
of regulated EPR schemes, and an agreed Global 
Plastics Treaty.

Logistics: Support policies that drive the clean transition 
of transportation infrastructure, e.g. access to renewable 
energy and EV infrastructure. 

Ice cream cabinets: Improve access to renewable energy 
and remove barriers to warming up the cold chain.

Aerosols: Address potential regulatory roadblocks 
in Canada.
Raise the ambition 
of national climate 
strategies and plans in 
key markets to align with 
a 1.5°C pathway
Ensure carbon is priced 
at levels necessary 
for the delivery of the 
Paris Agreement
Scale up renewable 
energy capacity and the 
rapid phase-out of fossil 
fuels, including fossil 
fuel subsidies
Support forest 
protection and 
nature restoration
Encourage the evolution 
of the GHG Protocol 
Standards to incentivise 
emissions reduction 
actions in value chains
35
Our wider influence on society

--- Page 36 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Trade associations and industry partnerships
Trade associations
As we progress on our climate action journey, we want our industries to move forward 
too. We have conducted an in-depth review of our main trade associations to assess their 
alignment with the Paris Agreement and our climate policy positions and have published 
this review on our website. We have also examined the extent to which we can influence 
these positions.
We have updated our internal trade association governance guidance to make clear that 
when entering into a new trade associations membership or when renewing a membership, 
our trade associations must confirm that their climate policy positions are aligned with 
Unilever. If they are not, they must confirm why this is the case and whether they are open 
to change. 
Where we consider it necessary, we offer guidance and support to our trade associations to 
help determine whether they are aligned with our climate policy positions and agree a way 
forward when they do not. In some circumstances, a trade association may be advocating 
for policy change that runs counter to Unilever's interests or position. In these cases, our 
preference is to engage the trade association to determine a) why their position is at odds 
with ours; and b) if their position(s) can change. If a trade association's position cannot be 
made consistent with Unilever's, then we reserve the right to withdraw our membership and 
make this information public.
In some instances, there may be a clash of positions; however, we may decide that 
Unilever's interests are best served by staying within the trade association. If this happens, 
Unilever reserves the right to make a public statement to this effect: we will then continue 
to work with the trade association to encourage it to align its climate policy position to 
our own. 
Industry partnerships and coalitions
We believe that cross-industry action can contribute to achieving both our goals and 
an economy-wide transition. We will continue to work with suppliers and industry peers 
and participate in issue-specific coalitions, such as RE100, to achieve transformational 
change within our chemicals and agricultural value chains. We will also continue to actively 
participate in groups seeking to pioneer net zero pathways, such as the WBCSD, the 
Exponential Roadmap Initiative and the We Mean Business Coalition. 
36
Our wider influence on society

--- Page 37 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Governance 
and 
delivery
37
Governance and delivery

--- Page 38 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Governance
Unilever Board and Board committees
The Board has overall accountability for the management of all risks and opportunities, 
including those arising from climate change and our CTAP. Our CEO and Executive Board 
member, Hein Schumacher, is ultimately responsible for overseeing our climate change 
agenda and the implementation of our CTAP. The Board delegates responsibility for specific 
matters related to climate change and our CTAP to different Board subcommittees: 
	• The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) has responsibility for the oversight of 
Unilever's conduct regarding our corporate and societal responsibilities, our reputation 
as a responsible corporate citizen, and our culture. The CRC reviews and provides input 
to Unilever on the management of current and emerging sustainability matters affecting 
the Unilever Group. It also provides external and independent oversight and guidance on 
the environmental and social impact of how Unilever conducts business. The Committee 
is responsible for reviewing the CTAP, ensuring we remain current and reviewing the 
progress towards meeting targets, and providing recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the development of the CTAP. The Committee reports all relevant matters 
discussed at its meetings to the Board.
	• The Audit Committee oversees the non-financial disclosures in our Annual Report and 
Accounts, including the progress reports against the CTAP. This includes reviewing 
the scope and results of any internal and external assurance activities obtained over 
the disclosures. 
Linking climate performance to 
executive remuneration
The Compensation Committee develops the Directors' Remuneration Policy and sets 
performance measures designed to challenge and support the Executive Directors to 
drive shareholder value, while delivering our sustainability commitments, including 
climate-focused targets. In March 2024, we will propose amendments to our Remuneration 
Policy which, if approved by shareholders at the 2024 AGM, would result in a Sustainability 
Progress Index (including climate targets) with a 15% weighting for 2024 Performance 
Share Plan (PSP) awards onwards. The PSP will, if approved, apply to members of the 
Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE) and our senior managers (approximately 500 
employees) from 2024. The Remuneration Policy can be found in our Annual Report 
and Accounts.
Shareholder engagement
The CTAP was put forward as an advisory vote at the company's 2021 AGM, which passed 
with the support of over 99% of the votes cast. Similarly, shareholders will have the 
opportunity to voice their support for this updated CTAP at the 2024 AGM. As was the case in 
2021, this advisory vote in no way removes the Board's responsibility for this strategy. These 
advisory votes are not mandatory but provide us with a more informed dialogue with our 
shareholders. If the resolution were to receive less than 80% support, we would comply with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and consult shareholders as to why this was the case.
38
Governance and delivery

--- Page 39 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Implementing and measuring progress against the plan
The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) delegates the day-to-day oversight of the 
CTAP to the Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE), receiving updates on the progress of our 
CTAP from the ULE four times a year. 
The ULE comprises the CEO, CFO, and other senior executives, including the President of 
each Business Group and the leaders of key functions. The ULE reviews progress against 
our Net Zero by 2039 ambition, our near-term Scope 1 & 2 GHG reduction target, and our 
near-term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets quarterly. The ULE is supported by our newly 
created Unilever Leadership Council (ULC), a group of senior leaders including our Chief 
Sustainability Officer. 
Each of the Business Groups and Business Operations are responsible for the delivery of 
their respective action areas as part of the CTAP, with a Sustainability Lead in each Business 
Group. The Business Groups are supported by the Sustainability Function and the Business 
Operations Sustainability team.
Our Climate & Nature Investment Committee evaluates and approves investment 
proposals and will review the progress of the Climate & Nature Fund. While investments 
made possible by our Climate & Nature Fund have the potential to contribute to the 
acceleration of our mitigating actions, it is not the primary financial resource used to deliver 
our CTAP (see Financial Planning below).
We will continue to report our progress against the CTAP within our Annual Report 
and Accounts and align to best-practice disclosure standards including CDP and the 
recommendations of the TCFD. Our approach to reporting will be informed by emerging 
legislation such as the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) requirements, 
which apply to Unilever with effect from 1 January 2024.

Supporting policies
The implementation of our plan is supported by several Unilever policies.
Our Environmental Policy defines our priority environmental focus areas. These include 
Climate action, Protect and regenerate nature, and Waste-free world. In addition to the 
sustainability priority areas defined by our strategy, we are committed to eco-efficiency 
practices in our operations which reduce emissions to air, land, and water.
Our Responsible Partner Policy (RPP) and its Fundamental Principles embody our 
commitment to responsible, transparent, and sustainable practices, describing what 
Unilever requires of business partners so we can do business together responsibly. 
Requirements are divided into three pillars: Business Integrity and Ethics, Human Rights, and 
Planet. More information on Unilever's work to embed respect for human rights across our 
value chain can be found on our website. In September 2023, we published the first version 
of our Principles in Support of Human Rights Defenders, including land and environmental 
defenders, which includes complementary implementation guidance to support the 
integration of these principles across our existing commitments and requirements.
39
Governance and delivery

--- Page 40 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our cross-commodity People & Nature Policy (P&N), also makes our no deforestation and 
conversion, transparency and traceability, and human rights requirements clear to our 
suppliers. We will seek to implement and independently verify the P&N policy's requirements 
over time with all our suppliers. This requires a collaborative effort, which is why we take a 
leading role in multistakeholder partnerships such as the Consumer Goods Forum's Forest 
Positive Coalition (CGF), the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and the Palm Oil 
Collaboration Group (POCG). 
The Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Code (SAC) has been one of the major tools in our 
sustainable sourcing programme since 2010. Through it, we have reached hundreds of 
suppliers and hundreds of thousands of farmers, helping them implement the principles of 
sustainable agriculture.
Our Code of Business Principles: Respect, Dignity and Fair Treatment demonstrates our 
values of integrity, respect, responsibility and pioneering. They govern everything we do. 
Our Code Policies define the ethical behaviours that we all need to demonstrate when 
working for Unilever. They are mandatory.
40
Governance and delivery

--- Page 41 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Financial planning
Our sustainability strategy, which includes our response to climate change, is embedded 
into our overall business strategy. It is not possible to separate out the costs and 
investments we are going to incur to address climate change mitigation or adaptation. 
When we consider product innovation, for example, we are responding to many different 
factors such as consumer needs, cost of different ingredients, quality and reliability of 
sourcing ingredients, carbon intensity of ingredients or factory capabilities. This means it 
is impossible to separate out one element of the cost or benefit, to be able to provide a 
separate cost for our response to climate change. In addition, at this stage, the route map 
to reach our Net Zero by 2039 ambition is not fully developed and so we are unable to 
include all such costs in the long-term financial plans until solutions emerge. 
Each of our five Business Groups has a financial growth plan which details the strategic 
actions they are planning to take and the related financial investments and P&L impacts. 
Within those plans, there may be a small number of costs related to a climate mitigation 
activity, but disclosure of such individual costs would not be meaningful as it would only 
represent a small element of the total embedded cost. Each year, we disclose how much 
we are investing in very long-term, prospective, stand-alone climate and nature projects 
through our reporting against our commitment to spend €1bn in this area from 2020 to 
2030. We continually monitor the potential financial impact of various long-term climate 
scenarios as detailed in our annual TCFD reporting which can be found in our Annual 
Report and Accounts.
41
Governance and delivery

--- Page 42 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Skills and training
We are committed to fostering climate and sustainability literacy among our employees, 
equipping them with role-specific skillsets. At Board level, the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee ensures the Board has sufficient sustainability 
skills and experience and recommends membership of the CRC for appointment by the 
Board. The Committee receives regular updates from management on climate risks 
and opportunities and how the business is tackling these in the context of the CTAP. 
The Committee also receives specific briefings on relevant issues such as net zero and 
corporate target setting as well as on the most important action areas for achieving 
Unilever's GHG reduction targets, such as regenerative agriculture. 
At senior management level, we cultivate sustainability and climate-specific skills through 
our Senior Strategic Leadership Programme. This includes skills for creating and executing 
a sustainable business strategy and leading sustainable systemic transformation.
We have partnered with external sustainability specialists for sustainability training 
design and delivery. Our broader workforce has access to the Sustainability School 
within our Unilever-wide learning platform. It offers a range of courses supporting 
employees in delivering our strategy, including our climate targets. We also offer deep-
dive external-accredited courses on a wide range of ESG topics, developed with UK and 
European universities. 
42
Governance and delivery

--- Page 43 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Internal carbon pricing
We use an internal carbon price for capital expenditure decisions which the Carbon 
Pricing Leadership Coalition determined would be consistent with achieving the 1.5°C 
temperature goal of the Paris Agreement. The Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, of 
which Unilever is a member, launched a High-Level Commission on Carbon Pricing in 
2015. The Commission's report, released in 2017, concluded that a carbon price of $40-
$80 per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) by 2020, rising to $50-$100 per tonne 
by 2030, when combined with supportive policies, would allow for the achievement of 
the Paris goal. We therefore use a shadow carbon price of €70/t CO2e, a figure which is 
reviewed annually. This provides an alternate view of capital expenditure business cases 
with the benefits and risks associated with GHG emissions ‘priced in', and acts as a form 
of carbon sensitivity analysis when making capital expenditure investment decisions in 
our operations. 
In practice, as not many of our operations are particularly energy-intensive, our Scope 
1 & 2 GHG reduction targets act as a more significant decision factor than the shadow 
carbon price. However, we believe the practice of internal carbon pricing is important 
in signalling support for carbon pricing as a policy instrument, and forms part of our 
commitment to align with the UN Global Compact's Business Leadership Criteria on 
Carbon Pricing.
43
Governance and delivery

--- Page 44 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
The Unilever Climate & Nature Fund
Our Climate & Nature Fund is an impact-led investment platform helping us to contribute 
to a net zero world and positively impact nature, livelihoods, and resource efficiency. The 
aim is to invest in strategic activities that seek to influence industry-wide change and help 
us achieve our goals by integrating sustainability into a strategic value-creating agenda 
for Unilever. 
Because the required value-chain transformations will need to happen at industry level, 
we are using the fund as a platform to inspire cooperation and generate co-financing to 
scale results. Unilever has committed to investing €1bn between 2020 and 2030 through 
the Climate & Nature Fund, and we hope to mobilise an equal amount in co-financing from 
partners through vehicles such as the private equity impact fund created with AXA and 
Tikehau Capital in 2022.
At the end of 2023, the Climate & Nature Fund had spent and committed €286m since its 
inception. Through our initial investments, we have learnt that the fund can open multiple 
pathways of value creation for the organisation, be it through injecting resilience and 
productivity in our value chain, reducing our exposure to regulatory costs or strengthening 
the growth of our brands. For example, an investment in a joint venture with Genomatica, 
a leader in biotech and sustainability, is being used to scale and commercialise 
alternatives to palm oil and fossil-fuel-derived cleansing ingredients. Similarly, our 
catalytic investment into a partnership with USAID is being used to foster the growth of 
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) which are strategic to building a more circular 
economy for packaging. 
44
Governance and delivery

--- Page 45 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Appendices
45
Appendices

--- Page 46 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Technical notes on target scopes and emissions measurement
Appendix 1
Emissions covered by our near-term Scope 3 GHG 
reduction targets
Our near-term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets cover approximately 
71% of the emissions in scope of our Net Zero by 2039 ambition. 
The GHG Protocol Scope 3 Emissions categories included are listed 
in the formal statement of our targets on page 11. This selection 
ensures we place our attention where we can measure and seek to 
reduce our emissions now while also, we believe, complying with 
the criteria of the SBTi. 
Emissions out of scope of our near-term Scope 3 GHG 
reduction targets but relevant to our Net Zero by 
2039 ambition
Two notable emissions categories are out of scope for our near-
term Scope 3 GHG reduction targets, but relevant to our Net Zero 
by 2039 ambition: indirect procurement, and third-party contract 
manufacturing outside of India.

One of the challenges with these categories of emissions is 
that accurate, supplier-specific data is not readily available 
to us, which means that reporting will be based exclusively on 
estimated, industry-average data which is not affected by the 
specific business decisions we make. Over time we expect this 
data to improve, but in the short term we have chosen to focus on 
improving the data quality of the emissions categories which are 
covered by our near-term targets.
Indirect procurement covers the purchasing of other goods and 
services that do not directly go into our products. The largest 
category of spend here is our advertising and media spend. 
Unilever has been encouraging the advertising industry to step 
up, helping to establish global industry initiatives Ad Net Zero 
with the Advertising Association, and the Planet Pledge with the 
World Federation of Advertisers. The advertising industry is at an 
early stage in understanding its GHG emissions and how it can 
better drive action, and we will continue to support our media 
partners as they embark on this journey.
Third-party contract manufacturers (CM) are used by Unilever 
to manufacture products on our behalf. While most Unilever 
products are made in our own factories, a proportion of the 
products (estimated at roughly 15% of the emissions in scope 
of our Net Zero by 2039 ambition) we sell are made for us to 
specifications and formulations set by us. India being the most 
material country in terms of CMs' footprint (roughly 25% of 
our total GHG emissions from CMs), we have begun engaging 
our Indian CMs on the emissions reduction journey and have 
included CMs in India within our Scope 3 target. As we progress 
and learn how to most effectively engage CMs, we will consider 
expanding the number of CMs in scope.




Other smaller emissions sources excluded from the scope of 
our near-term targets include capital goods, waste generated 
in our operations, business travel and employee commuting, 
downstream transport and distribution, and franchises.
Note that while business travel is not a particularly significant 
source of emissions for Unilever, we recognise that it is 
nevertheless one that stakeholders expect us to tackle. We 
continue to participate in groups such as EV100, which are also 
raising the bar to encourage companies to move away from 
electric hybrids to 100% electric vehicles.

Restatement of emissions data: We anticipate that there 
could be further restatements in our emissions data in future 
years, because of evolving reporting requirements and or IPCC 
updates on official carbon conversion factors depending on 
the significance of such changes. Restatements may also be 
made to correct errors in our reporting, as a result of incorrect 
data or calculations or when we need to reflect the impact of an 
acquisition or disposal to ensure disclosures are meaningful. We 
will only restate when there is a material impact on the metrics 
being reported and only then if good quality data is available. 
If good quality data is not available, we will write a narrative 
explaining the limitations of the prior year comparatives or 
baseline years.
46
Appendices

--- Page 47 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Our position on carbon credits
Appendix 2
Our position on carbon credits and offsetting remains unchanged 
from the plan we published in 2021. 
Delivery of GHG reduction targets
We will not use carbon credits to meet our near-term GHG 
reduction targets.
Beyond Value Chain Mitigation (BVCM)
We welcome the development of a robust, high-integrity 
framework for BVCM claims. However, we believe that for 
companies such as Unilever with significant potential to drive real 
emissions reduction within our value chains, prioritising efforts to 
reduce emissions in the value chain may be more attractive than 
BVCM programmes, however high their quality.

We recognise that voluntary carbon markets can provide 
additional financial flows to strategic global priorities such as 
tropical forest protection. These markets must be supported with 
clear guidance to ensure that demand for high-integrity carbon 
credits from companies who wish to make high-integrity voluntary 
carbon market claims can do so without reducing the pressure to 
drive technically and commercially feasible emissions reductions 
at source.
Use of carbon credits to support brand claims
In 2023, none of our key brands made consumer-facing claims 
backed by carbon credits. In the past, some Unilever brands 
have sought to substantiate consumer-facing claims using 
the purchase of carbon credits, such as 'carbon neutral' or 
'climate neutral'. Increasingly, we expect brands not to follow 
this approach. If brands should purchase carbon credits in 
future, we are clear that this counts as a BVCM action from a 
Unilever perspective. Any credits are not and will not be used 
to contribute to the achievement of Unilever's near-term GHG 
reduction targets. 
Note on carbon removals
Under SBTi rules, carbon removals within our value chain may be 
counted towards achieving our near-term Scope 3 GHG (FLAG) 
reduction target. We will not purchase carbon credits to meet 
this target and intend to align closely with the SBTi and GHG 
Protocol accounting standards as they develop. As of 2024, the 
GHG Protocol Land Sector and Removals Guidance remains 
in draft. We have taken this draft guidance into account when 
preparing this revised plan. 
47
Appendices

--- Page 48 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Glossary of key terms and acronyms
Appendix 3
Beyond Value Chain Mitigation (BVCM)






Carbon credits	





Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)	



Carbon removals	

Deforestation

Energy Attribute Certificate (EAC)	



FLAG
BVCM has emerged in the past three years to describe the practice of purchasing voluntary carbon credits as an additional action, above and beyond that which a 
company takes to reduce emissions within its value chain.

It distinguishes itself from the practice of ‘offsetting' in that companies are encouraged to purchase credits without making a climate or carbon neutrality claim. The 
development of the claims architecture for BVCM claims has been led by the Voluntary Carbon Markets Integrity Initiative (VCMI), a group Unilever has engaged with over 
the past three years. 

Unilever does not use carbon credits to meet our near-term GHG reduction targets. A carbon credit is a financially tradable instrument that represents a reduction, 
removal, or avoidance of one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent achieved by a project. They are used by businesses and individuals to account for activity that they 
have funded. Carbon credits have drawn criticism for their use in offsetting whereby a company uses carbon credits generated from projects outside its value chain to 
compensate for emissions in its operations or within its value chain. Offsetting does not lower the company's gross emissions footprint. 

This metric is used to measure and compare GHGs that are not carbon dioxide, so that their relative contribution to climate change, based on their global warming 
potential (GWP), can be understood, and compared. 

Carbon removals are generated by activities that draw down carbon from the atmosphere. Removals can be nature-based (e.g. reforestation) or technology-based (e.g. 
direct air capture and underground storage). 

Loss of natural forest as a result of i) conversion to agriculture or other non-forest land use; ii) conversion to a tree plantation; or iii) severe and sustained degradation.

Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are contractual instruments that provide an energy buyer information (attributes) about the energy generated. They are most often 
used for certifying that purchased energy has been generated by renewable sources. 

FLAG emissions refer to GHG emissions from forests, land, and agriculture. 
48
Appendices

--- Page 49 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Forest-risk commodities	

GHG Protocol	

Global Warming Potential (GWP)	

Greenhouse gases (GHG)	
Net zero






Offsetting

Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)



Value chain	
Globally traded goods and raw materials that originate from tropical forest ecosystems, either directly from within forest areas, or from areas previously under forest 
cover, whose extraction or production contributes significantly to global tropical deforestation and degradation.
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is an international organisation that provides standards and tools to consistently measure, manage and report the GHG emissions of 
businesses and governments. 
GWP measures how much infrared radiation one tonne of the greenhouse gas in question would absorb within a given time frame. It compares the relative contribution 
of different greenhouse gases and estimates their aggregate impact. 
Greenhouse gases are gases within the atmosphere that trap infrared radiation from the sun, preventing its reflection back towards space, leading to the warming of the 
atmosphere. The main greenhouse gases include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and water vapour. Other synthetic materials are also classed as greenhouse 
gases. Different GHGs have different levels of global warming potential (GWP). 
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change defines net zero emissions as when “anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere 
are balanced by anthropogenic removals over a specified period.” Our Net Zero by 2039 ambition means that we will seek to balance any unabated emissions within 
the scope of our Net Zero by 2039 ambition, from 2039, with the same volume of like-for-like carbon removals. Whilst we are applying this UN definition in this CTAP, we 
anticipate that this definition of 'net zero' will likely need to adapt over time to ensure alignment with developing global standards. Currently Race to Zero Criteria 3.0, 
ISO Net Zero Guidelines (IEA 42:2022) and the SBTi Corporate Net Zero Standard have implemented alternative definitions and we expect work will be necessary to agree a 
global standard.

See Carbon credits.

The Science Based Targets initiative is a partnership between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, World Resources Institute (WRI), and WWF. It aims to catalyse 
private sector action on climate change by supporting companies and financial institutions to understand how quickly they need to reduce emissions, to align with net 
zero science-based targets, in line with the more ambitious Paris ambition of limiting warming to 1.5°C. 
The full range of steps needed to create a product. It covers everything from the initial design all the way through to the end consumer and the product end of life. Value 
chain activities and their resulting GHG emissions are often split into upstream (occurring before our business) and downstream (occurring after our business).
49
Appendices

--- Page 50 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Overview of Unilever's climate change reporting
Appendix 4
As disclosure requirements develop, we will continue to align with best practice and new legislative such as 
the upcoming European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS).
Information





Format





Location	
Climate-related 
risks and 
opportunities



Task Force 
on Climate-
related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) 
statement

Published in our 
Annual Report 
and Accounts
Clear plans 
and targets 
to transition 
towards net zero 
ambition 

This document, 
our Climate 
Transition Action 
Plan (CTAP)


Published online 
as a stand-alone 
document
Progress against 
our transition 
plans and targets



CTAP Progress 
Report




Published in our 
Annual Report 
and Accounts
Additional 
climate 
disclosures 
for Unilever 
stakeholders 

CDP disclosure





Published online 
via the CDP 
website
50
Appendices

--- Page 51 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Disclaimers
This document contains a number of graphics, infographics and 
text boxes which aim to give a high-level overview of certain 
elements of this Plan and improve the accessibility of this Plan for 
readers. These graphics, infographics and text boxes are designed 
to be read within the context of the Plan as a whole. 
This document, and the information and data contained herein, 
has been developed based on current information, estimates 
and beliefs, using models, methodologies and standards which 
are subject to certain assumptions and limitations, including 
(but not limited to) the availability and accuracy of data, lack of 
standardisation of data and lack of historical data, as well as other 
future contingencies, dependencies, risks and uncertainties (due to, 
among other things, global and regional legislative, judicial, fiscal, 
technological and regulatory developments including regulatory 
measures addressing climate change). As a result, such models, 
methodologies, and standards may be subject to adjustment 
beyond the control of Unilever and may change over time. Unilever 
does not undertake to update any such statements, information or 
data contained herein, nor to inform you if any statements, data, or 
information contained herein change in future.
This document also contains data on Unilever’s Scope 1, 2 
and 3 emissions. Some of this data is based on estimates, 
assumptions and uncertainties. Scope 1 and 2 emissions data 
relates to emissions from Unilever’s own activities and supplied 
heat, power and cooling and is generally easier for Unilever to 
gather than Scope 3 emissions data. Scope 3 emissions relate 
to other organisations’ emissions and is therefore subject to 
a range of additional uncertainties, including that: data used 
to model lifecycle footprints is typically industry-standard 
data or estimates rather than relating to individual suppliers; 
and lifecycle models such as Unilever’s cover many but not all 
products and markets. In addition, international standards and 
protocols relating to Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions calculations 
and categorisations also continue to evolve, as do accepted 
norms regarding terminology such as carbon neutral and net 
zero which may affect the emissions data Unilever reports. 
As Scope 3 emissions data improves, shifting over time from 
generic modelled data to more specific data, the data reported 
in this document is likely to evolve.
The models, methodologies, data, and standards used to 
develop this document and the information and data contained 
herein are not of the same standard as those available in 
the context of other financial information, nor subject to the 
same or equivalent disclosure standards, historical reference 
points, benchmarks or globally accepted accounting principles 
and are subject to rapid change and development for the 
reasons stated above. Any opinions and estimates given in 
this document should therefore be regarded as indicative, 
preliminary and/or illustrative given these issues. Actual 
outcomes may differ from those set out herein.
Unless otherwise stated, the information and data in this 
document has not been audited or assured. Some of the 
information and data in this document may have been obtained 
from public or other third-party sources and has not been 
independently verified. Unilever makes no representation or 
warranty regarding its completeness, accuracy, fitness for a 
particular purpose or non-infringement of such information.
Any opinions or views of third parties contained in this document 
are those of the third parties identified, and not Unilever, its 
affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents. Neither 
Unilever nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers, employees, 
or agents make any representation or warranty as to its quality, 
accuracy, or completeness, and they accept no responsibility or 
liability for the contents of this material, including any errors of 
fact, omission or opinion expressed.
Unilever, its affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or 
agents expressly disclaim any liability and responsibility for 
any decisions or actions which you may take and for any 
damage or losses you may suffer from your use of or reliance on 
this material. 
This document does not contain or comprise profit forecasts, 
investment, accounting, legal, regulatory or tax advice nor is 
it an invitation for you to enter into any transaction. You are 
advised to exercise your own independent judgement (with the 
advice of your professional advisers as necessary) with respect to 
the risks and consequences of any matter contained herein. 
Appendices
51

--- Page 52 ---
Unilever Climate Transition Action Plan
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements, including 
‘forward-looking statements' within the meaning of the 
United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Words such as 'will', 'aim', 'expects', ‘expectations', ‘progress', 
‘estimate', 'anticipates', 'intends', ‘intention', 'looks', 'believes', 
'vision', 'ambition', 'target', 'seek', 'goal', 'plan', 'potential', 
'try', 'work towards', ‘future', ‘become', ‘introduce', ‘transform', 
‘outcome', ‘project', ‘projections', ‘deliver', ‘evolve', ‘come 
about', ‘develop', ‘forwards', ‘pioneer', ‘going to', ‘prospective', 
‘long-term', ‘objective', ‘achievement', or the negative of these 
terms and other similar expressions of future actions or results, 
and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-
looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but 
are not limited to, statements and information regarding the 
Unilever Group's (the 'Group') targets and strategy to reduce in 
absolute terms its operational (Scope 1 & 2) emissions by 70% 
by 2025 and by 100% by 2030 against a 2015 baseline and to 
achieve net zero emissions covering Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
by 2039, as well as its targets and strategy to reduce in-scope 
absolute Scope 3 (energy & industrial emissions) by 42% and 
Scope 3 (forest, land, and agriculture (FLAG) emissions) by 
30.3% by 2030 from a 2021 baseline as set out in more detail in 
the Targets section of this document (the 'Climate Transition 
Action Plan').
Forward-looking statements also include, but are not 
limited, to actions to reduce emissions in the Group's own 
operations and across its value chain, including reducing 
emissions at the Group's factories, offices and labs as well 
as within its supply chain (e.g. raw materials, packaging 
materials, logistics and distribution), retail outlets and 
waste processing; the redesign of products to reduce 
emissions through innovation; business travel, commuting 
and homeworking; capital investment related to the 
Climate Transition Action Plan; the Group's €1bn Climate & 
Nature Fund and its investments; and future advocacy and 
partnerships in wider society.
These forward-looking statements are based upon current 
expectations and assumptions regarding anticipated 
developments and other factors affecting the Group. 
Forward-looking statements are based on the current 
expectations and assumptions of management. They 
are not historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future 
performance or outcomes. Because these forward-
looking statements involve known and unknown risks and 
uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied by these forward-looking statements. Among other 
risks and uncertainties, the material or principal factors 
which could cause actual results to differ materially include, 
but are not limited to, those set out under the heading 
'Dependencies' under each emissions reduction lever set 
out in this document. No assurance can be given that the 
forward-looking statements in this document will be realised. 
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date 
of this document. Except as required by any applicable law 
or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation 
or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to 
any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect 
any change in the Group's expectations with regard thereto 
or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on 
which any such statement is based.
This document does not form part of the Unilever Annual 
Report and Accounts 2023. The contents of websites, 
including Unilever's website, do not form part of 
this document.
Appendices
52

--- Page 53 ---
Head Office 
Unilever PLC
100 Victoria Embankment
London
EC4Y 0DY
United Kingdom

T +44 (0)20 7822 5252
Registered Office
Unilever PLC
Port Sunlight
Wirral
Merseyside
CH62 4ZD
United Kingdom
 
Company Number: 41424
Registered in England and Wales
unilever.com/CTAP
